The instructions here cover:

 * how to build the required customised MythTV instance
 * how to build a distribution tarball including both it and UC Server
 * how to create a USB stick from which MythBuntu can be installed
   that includes the MythTV + UC server tarball
 * how to set up a machine from scratch using that USB stick
 * how to later install just UC server (eg. if a new version)

At present (September 2011) UC Server requires a slightly patched version of
MythTV. Installation therefore requires the building of a customised
build of MythTV.

In the following steps, we assume that you have a 'development machine'
available, which is a computer capable of running the necessary software
to prepare the customised build of MythTV and copy it onto a USB stick.  The
authors have successfully used development machines running MacOS X and Ubuntu
Linux 10.04.  The use of other platforms (such as Windows and CygWin) may also
be possible.  It is vital to ensure that the same versions of the libraries on
which MythTV depends are used for the compilation process: one easy way to
achieve this is to perform the compilation on a machine running the same
operating system version as the 'target machine' described below.

We also assume that you have a 'target machine', which is a second
computer with a built-in or attached DVB-T tuner, on which you wish to install
MythTV and the UC server software.  The authors have successfully used MythBuntu
10.04 (32 bit edition) as the operating system for this machine: being a MythTV-
oriented distribution, it already comes with many of the required packages for 
MythTV and automates much of the process needed to get MythTV up and running.
Our instructions therefore assume the use of this Linux distribution.
It is likely that installing the UC Server software on other operating systems
and Linux distributions is also possible.

The steps below assume your MythTV system has a DVB-T TV Tuner connected
eg. a USB based TV tuner device. If you live in a country without DVB-T
then this process should still work for other kinds of digital TV, assuming
you have an appropriate MythTV-supported tuner device. The steps you need to
take during the part of the MythTV setup process where you configure and tune
the TV receiver may however need to be varied as appropriate.

Obtaining MythTV source, patching it and compiling it
-----------------------------------------------------

The following steps should be followed in order to build the modified
MythTV that is needed, at present, by the Universal Control server code.
This process downloads the MythTV source, patches it, compiles it, then
builds an installation tarball.

   1. Download a copy of the UCMythTV repository to your development machine.
      If you have the 'git' command-line client installed (which you will
      require for the next step anyway), you can do this from
      a terminal window by changing to a suitable directory and running:
      
          git clone https://github.com/bbcrd/UCMythTV.git UCMythTV
          
      The 'UCMythTV' directory created by this command will be referred to
      elsewhere in this document as the 'repository root'.

   2. Execute the following commands into a terminal window after changing
      directory to the repository root (you will need the 'git' and 'patch'
      command-line tools installed for this to work):

          cd servers/platform_extras/mythtv
          ./scripts/acquire-mythtv-source.sh

      The source code for MythTV itself will be retrieved, patched and
      stored in this directory:

          servers/platform_extras/mythtv/mythtv-source

      If desired, you can make further changes to the MythTV source code stored
      in this directory before proceeding to the next step.  The directory is
      also a git repository.

   3. Before you can compile the patched version of MythTV, you may need to
      install some additional dependencies. On a Debian-based Linux
      distribution (assuming your user account is authorised to run sudo) you
      can ensure that you have all the necessary dependencies installed by
      running:

          sudo apt-get install build-essential libasound2-dev libqt4-dev \
                               pkg-config yasm libdirectfb-dev g++ \
                               qt4-qmake libmp3lame-dev libxxf86vm-dev \
                               libxinerama-dev python-pycurl python-pyrex

   4. To compile the patched MythTV source and create a binary tarball ready for
       installation, run the following commands from a terminal window after
       changing directory to the repository root:

          cd servers/platform_extras/mythtv
          ./recreate-tarball.sh

When this successfully completes, you can move onto the installation steps
described below.


Creating an installation USB stick
----------------------------------

The following steps assume you have followed the previous instructions and have
prepared a binary tarball of the patched and compiled MythTV ready for
installation.

The steps below describe how to create a bootable USB stick containing
MythBuntu, the UC server software and the patched version of MythTV, ready to
install onto the target machine.

On your development machine:

   1. Download a Mythbuntu installer image from Mythbuntu and write it to a USB
   stick as a bootable disk.  Choose the 10.04 32 bit edition.  At the time of
   writing, an ISO image was available at:
   
       http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/mythbuntu/releases/10.04/release
       /mythbuntu-10.04-desktop-i386.iso

   2. Change directory to the repository root and execute the
      following commands:

          cd scripts
          ./package-dist-mythtv.sh create

      This packages up both the mythtv tarball and all the components
      that make up the UC Server into a single tarball with an installation
      script.

   3. Copy the resulting tarball 'UC-mythtv-install-[date].tar.gz'
      from the ../dist directory onto the USB stick



Setting up a new PC with the USB stick you just created
-------------------------------------------------------

For each target machine you want to install on:

   1. Boot your new computer using the USB stick and start the MythBuntu
      installation process.

   2. When the installer asks you if you want to run the MythTV
      configuration tools say yes, and then do the following:

         1. Add a capture card - 'DVB DTV capture card' for DVB receivers

         2. Add a Video Source, setting the 'listings grabber' to
           'Transmitted guide only (EIT)'

         3. Configure an "Input Mapping" between the DVB receiver you
            configured and the Video Source you created, and then tell
            it to scan for all channels (TV and radio)

         4. Accept all of the channels it finds

         5. Optionally edit your channel table to remove channels you don't
            want to use.

   3. Finish the MythBuntu instalation and allow the machine to reboot
      into MythBuntu

   4. Quit the MythTV front-end by pressing Esc at the main menu.

   5. Open up a terminal window, mount the usb stick, copy the
      'UC-mythtv-install-[date].tar.gz' tarball you created earlier
       into a suitable directory on the hard disk of the target machine, and
       uncompress it.

   6. Change into the uncompressed directory and execute the command:

          bash setup.sh

   7. Enter the password of your user account when prompted. The user account
      must have the right to run 'sudo'; this is the default for MythBuntu
      10.04.  The target machine must be connected directly to the Internet (no
      HTTP proxies, but NAT is fine) while this script is running.

   8. After a few minutes, the MythTV front-end will start.
      Confirm that you wish to perform an upgrade, and then reconfirm when a
      warning is displayed.

   9. Exit the MythTV front-end. The machine will then reboot and
      installation should be complete.

Finally: the distribution also includes a script for enabling audio via HDMI
which was developed for use on Asus 'EeeBox' target machines. To use it, run:

        scripts/enable_hdmi_audio.sh

If you wish to apply the script to a machine without having to build or use a UC installation tarball, it can be found in the repository at the following location:

        $REPO_ROOT/servers/platform_extras/mythtv/scripts/setup_hdmi_audio.sh


Installing/updating just the UC Server
--------------------------------------

Perhaps you just want to update the UC Server, without re-installing the
modified MythTV too.  This is common when a new version of the UC Server
software is released.

    1. On your development machine, update the git repository, then go into the
        scripts sub-directory of the repository root and run these two scripts:

            package-server-mythtv.sh
            package-server-lib-py-ucserver.sh

       If successful, each will echo the path to a resulting tarball,
       containing the packaged code.

    2. Take these two tarballs, copy them onto the target machine(s), uncompress
       them, and for both, run:

            sudo python setup.py install
	    
