What is this?
-------------

This is a a very simple ajax client for a universal control (UC) server.  It
is designed to be served from a web server, and used in a browser.

This software is provided for example purposes only, and we provide no guarantee of it being free from bugs. We do not recommend its use in any mission-critical environments.

To make use of this client you need a universal control server, a
web-server, and a modern web browser with CORS[1] support on a client
machine. Suitable browsers include Firefox and Chrome, but does NOT (as of
Feb 2011) include Internet Explorer.

The client machine must be capable of sending HTTP requests to both the
web-server AND the Universal Control server.  It is NOT required for the web
server machine to be able to make requests to the Universal Control server
because all the communication is done directly in javascript.

The web-server and browser can be on the same machine if you want. You could
also run the universal control server on the same machine, however this is
not required.



Getting it running
------------------
In summary, using the supplied basic web server:

  1. Run server.py
  2. Point browser at http://localhost:8000

You can also use your own web server if you wish. Simply place the contents
of this directory into it, and configure it to serve it up. Then point your
web browser at it.



Using the interface
-------------------

The first thing the web page should display is a box asking for a pairing
code. Enter the pairing code of your Universal Control server and the client
should connect.

    For the MythTV based UC server, there is a 'pairing code' screen in the
    setup menu which will display the pairing code you need.

The client shows what source the box is currently tuned to, its current
volume, and if such information is available then also the title, time, and
description of the currently presenting programme.  The source can be
changed by selecting a source from the "Change Source" list-box, and hitting
enter (or clicking the "GO" button).  The volume can be changed by selecting
the desired volume from the "Change Volume" list-box, and hitting enter (or
clicking the "Set" button).  The client will automatically update its
representation fo what the box is showing when it changes.

If the user selects to change to a source which requires the selection of an
individual programme then the client will bring up a dialogue-box with a
list of programmes to choose from.  The list will only contain the first ten
items, but more can be displayed using the "Next" and "Previous" buttons.




The files here
--------------

  -- index.html   : The html page which contains the displayed elements of the client.
  
  -- UCClient.js  : A javascript file containing the bulk of the client code.

  -- server.py    : A simple python script which acts as a web server.

  -- js/ and css/ : directories containing the javascript and css components of
                    the jQuery and jQuery-ui javascript libraries employed by 
                    the client. 



[1] Cross Origin Resource Sharing
    http://www.w3.org/TR/cors/

